# Handwritten-digit-classification
The MNIST database of handwritten digits, formed by Yann LeCun of NYU, has a total of 70,000 examples from approximately 250 writers. The images are 28*28 in size. There are 60,000 images in training test while 10,000 images in the test set. The project aims to implement several classification algorithms namely kNN, logistic regression, SVM, and ensemble learning for accurate handwritten digit recognition.
## Introduction and Motivation
Computer Vision has been a growing field intersecting many disciplines such as computer science, mathematics, and engineering. The interest in these type of problems has been increased over the years because of its potential application. In MNIST Digit Recognition we are building the classifiers based on training set and applying that classifiers to the test set to correctly predict the digit. We chose this problem as it is highly regarded as the steppingstone to the exciting field of computer vision. This paper outlines different Machine Learning Algorithm on MNIST data set. The MNIST database of handwritten digits, formed by Yann LeCun of NYU, has total of 70,000 examples from approximately 250 writers. The images are 28*28 in size. There are 60,000 images in training set while 10,000 images in the test set. The digits in both the dataset are labeled as any number between 0 to 9.
Since the MNIST dataset is quite popular in the research community. We were motivated to know what are the proven ways which we can use to handle this data, apply algorithms and infer the results. At present, there is a wide need for solving problems that involve high dimensional data. The chosen problem is on similar lines and throw opens the opportunity to learn about dimensionality reduction and how to create a visualization to get a sense of the data. This problem allowed us to apply ML algorithm that we learned in the class lectures. As the problem is a highly researched one, it allowed us to know if we have implemented our solution in the right way or not. The right execution solidifies our learning and motivates us to go further in the field of Computer Vision.
